## On type of objects

There are two types of objects or two that i know for now :
- Scalar Objects - these are the objects that cant be sub/divided. like say a number, 5 you cant really divide 5 into two equal parts without having to deal with decimals and all can ye?
- Non-Scalar Objects - Since there are scalar objects there ought to be non-scalar and opposite to what scalar is yes they can be sub/divided as they have internal structure like say a list of numbers, (1, 2, 3 4, 5, 6, ....) you can divide this list on basis of odd no. and even no.

## Scalar Objects in python

In python (not the snake dumkopf) the programming language there are few scalar type objects and they are:
- int - represent integers, ex. 5
- float - represent real numbers, ex 3.27
- bool - represent boolean values/logic True or False
- NoneType - special and has one value, None
To know the type of an object in python using just the data you can use type()

```
>>>type(5)
int
>>>type(3.0)
float
```
## Type conversions (Cast)

in python or any language like in C or Cpp its the same one type of object can be converted into another type.
- like if i do float (3) here three is an integer meant to be used with int but when i use float the integer value will convert into float value that is 3.0 and you can also control/decide how many digits after decimals need to be displayed, in C or Cpp i had use %.2f if i can recall it correctly it would show only two digits after decimal i.e. 3.00
- likewise with int(3.9) here 3.9 is a decimal which is supposed to be used with float type but when using with int the float value will get converted into int value that is just 3

## Operators on ints and floats
now there are several operators that can be used with/on floats and ints values (its just like i would do it in math)
- i + j (sum)
- i - j (difference)
- i * j (product)
- i / j (division) - result is float
with sum, difference and product if both the input values/data/operands are ints, result is int. If wither of them is floats or both are, result is float
- i % j (remainder of i / j)
- i ** j (i to the power of j)

## Assigning values to variables

basically providing a description to a variable 
`(variable)pi = 3.14159(description)`
equal sign is used to assign the description, after assigning the description to the variable the value(description) get stored in the computer memory. assigning values binds the description (given) to the variable unless changed. in order to retrieve the value which is assigned to the variable; we will do so by typing `pi`.

important point to be noticed/noted is that the left side will always be a variable which will be storing any sort of value while the right side is the value or a certain operation that will give a value.
`A = B + C`

now as before i said the variables can be rebind to other values on command, though the previous value may still be in memory but will lose the handle of the variable and will eventually get erased/wiped out of the variable.

```
pi = 3.14
radius = 2.2
area = pi * (radius ** 2)
radius = radius + 1
```

now when i change/rebind the radius to radius + 1 what i did is reassigned the radius variable with the previous value of radius + 1 the value of area wont change though as the rebind happens after the calculation in order to get a revised value of area i would need to tell the computer to repeat the calculation.